it's kind of like this ideological
escalation through game technology and
it just makes you wonder isn't there a
better way to use this bucking the
current trend Sweden is actually
attempting to use first person shooter
technology to ease tensions through
their game foreign ground
paid for by the Swedish Department of
Defense this international peacekeeping
game teaches soldiers soft skills like
negotiation rather than just relying on
combat skills always after fighting
games you know have so many guns and so
much violence is because gun I've done
is just such a visceral way for
interactivity for instant interaction
foreground is more I would say more of a
with training simulator than a video
game Americans are also starting to find
potential in the media beyond the
obvious military applications you know
the sand groups the one and learned a
lot about you know Kim technology and
building America's Army are now doing
research of how to use games and virtual
worlds to do post-traumatic stress
treatment and a lot of other very
important things dr. Albert skip Rizzo
director of the virtual environments lab
at USC Los Angeles is leading the way in
this relatively new field post-traumatic
stress disorder or PTSD is a response to
extreme trauma is anything where
somebody has traumatized beyond the
realm of normal human experience dr.
Rizzo uses virtual reality exposure
sessions to help military veterans
overcome post-traumatic stress in the
course of say 10 or 12 sessions of
exposure therapy you would gradually ask
the person to re-expand imagination or
virtual reality let them actually they
get used to it
only the therapist is able to control
the intensity of the experience start
off at the very lowest level of exposure
which I'm very gradually at a level of
the person can handle only once the
person has adjusted to the very basic
exposure environment then you add in
perhaps the sound of a bomb first
designed to help Vietnam War veterans
this technology is now a useful tool for
overcoming many types of traumatic
experiences people who applied it for
the World Trade Center experience
they've applied it for motor vehicle
accidents for other combat situations in
Europe psychologists are not the only
ones attempting to make the world a
better place a company called games for
change is also utilizing the technology
in innovative ways generally what means
is that games can be used for purposes
other than just entertainment bossy Bora
a former intelligence officer in the
Israeli army and his partner Eric Brown
have created a video game that strives
to buy peace in the Middle East the
peacemaker is a strategy simulation
about the israeli-palestinian conflict
on the most important thing is that you
play as either perspective as the
Palestinian President or the Israeli
Prime Minister it's a simulation game we
did something very and restricted in the
sense that you can do what the leader
can do and you can play